Sometimes, the need arise to use a mix of defaults and extra arguments to a function. For example, you can pass a variety of optional arguments to reserve an EC2 instance on AWS, but you at least need to specify the AMI id. We could determine a reasonable default value for the AMI id, and let the user specify another value as well as any other parameter in a hash, if need be. Something like this would work:

```ruby
def foo(extra_options)
  default = {a: 1, b: 1}
  params = default.merge extra_options
end
```

However it is lacking from a documentational point of view. Simply by viewing the function definition it is not immediately clear what the default values are. Since version 2.0, Ruby allows for keywords arguments, which improve readability a lot. It's like named parameters, but you are not constrained by their order. You can now write

```ruby
def foo(a: 1, b: 1, extra_options: {})
  params = {a: a, b: b}.merge extra_options
end
```

But it's a little annoying to have to write the 'extra_options' each time. Let's use keywords arguments to enable a mix of default and extra parameters for our functions !

```ruby
# notice the double splat '**' 
def foo(a: 1, b: 1, **extra_key) 
  default_params = {a: a, b: b}
  options = default_params.merge(extra_keys)
end

f(a: 2, c: 1)
# {a: 2, b: 1, c: 1}
```

We are getting there, but it's inconvenient to have to write the default params a second time to get them into a hash. Instead, we can make use of the method *parameters* ruby meta function to get an array of the params names, and the *local_variable_get* method to get the value for each parameter.

```ruby
def foo(a: 1, b: 1, **extra_keys)
  options = Hash[method(__method__).parameters.map{|key, arg| [arg, (binding.local_variable_get arg)]}]
  options = options.merge options.delete(:extra_keys) # 'flatten' the extra_key key
end```

For example :
```ruby
foo
=> {a: 1, b: 1}
foo(c: 1)
=> {a: 1, b: 1, c: 1}
foo(c: 1, a: 2)
=> {a: 2, b:1, c: 1}
```

This way, the default parameters are immediately visible, and the user can pass any other numbers of parameters. The ordering of the parameters also does not matter. The inconvenient is that it's not easy to read or write, so as a finishing touch, let's extract it into a helper function by passing the caller function binding object:

```ruby
def merge_default_and_extra_params(params, bind)
  a = params.map{|key,arg| [arg, bind.local_variable_get(arg)]}
  h = Hash[a]
  extra_key = h.keys.last
  h.merge h.delete(extra_key)
end

def foo(a: 1, b: 1, **extra_keys)
  options = merge_default_and_extra_params(method(__method__).parameters, binding)
end
```
