---
layout: single
title: Pillmish
date: 2025-08-09 13:48 +0000
author_profile: true
---

A few days ago I heard about [Pilish](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pilish) for the first time. As wikipedia puts it, `Pilish is a style of constrained writing in which the lengths of consecutive words or sentences match the digits of the number π (pi).` My second thought (right after "who would enjoy doing that") was, this sound easy for LLMs ! So I set up to make a minimal proof of concept.

Long story short, the trick is to constrain the output to follow the digits of Pi - the same way that structured output (JSON etc) works. With Huggingface transformers it's easy to do with a custom `logits_processor`. Here we just constrain the tokens to those matching the desired number of characters, at each step. I shared the code on [github](https://gist.github.com/MarhicJeromeGIT/d01f79363420c8c10d5aeba10c4c9960) .

Here are a few samples I generated:

- and I have a small apartment in London which has three bedrooms including private bathrooms and my own bathroom with
- you d have a whole community of people where you could interact virtually without requiring you to get involved with
- isn t even a place dedicated to making money and doing anything important besides promoting you to the audience that

You can see the letter count is 3,14159...

So that's that. Now the model I used, [facebook/opt-125m](https://huggingface.co/facebook/opt-125m) is rather small and the tokenizer uses Byte Pair Encoding (BPE) - meaning a lot of words are split into multiple tokens, so the results are obviously subpar, but you get the idea. That's about as far as I'm willing to go as I already lost interest in the whole affair, but a some next step would be to stop the generation/backtrack depending on the loss - and maybe train a model from scratch using a Word-level encoding. Also you can easily implement a trick where two digits like "11" could be interepreted as an eleven-letters word as well as two one letter words, etc. 